there is a software that can solve a
lot of problems for a lot of people
and I don't even know why I didn't
tell you about it before among other things the author is
also Italian Luca Di Maio usually in
question is distro box which  it allows you
to run any distribution
inside a container that is not isolated
but integrated within the system And
then you say But why would you
want something like that. To
begin with let's say that you are a
non-privileged user on a system that is not
completely  Maybe yours, I don't know, is it a
company laptop or  for any
reason a machine on which you don't have
root privileges normally you
wouldn't be able to Install software on this
stuff or those who use
immutable distributions this thing here is usually
done with Snap Snap flatpacks and other
alternative packaging systems that
allow you to Install software on the side
user another use case for which I see
the use of containers made in
this way is to try many software
while keeping the operating system
relatively clean therefore without
affecting different parts of the system
they have to install a thousand software a thousand
things of which  then we forget and the
dependencies remain there  so
indefinitely Or maybe you are a
developer you want to develop and test
your software on more than one
distribution without having a thousand
virtual machines this is another
very interesting use case or you can run
Legacy code no longer supported by
your distro within a
container of an older distribution
that still supports it or
use more recent software or even
Bleeding Edge on your
stable or all the stable distribution, maybe you are one of
those crazy people who installed Debian's
Table on your PC and therefore you find all
the stuff from 5 years ago
we joke now when we are 12 and I have
changed  everything but in five years we'll be
back to the top and you can help out with
these containers to run the
latest stuff. So you can take advantage of the
repos of any distribution
outside of Debian, for example you can
also use our on Debian or Fedora and it's best to
install more  versions of the same
software or library which depending on the
use cases can really save your life
how to use it Well first of all you have to
install podman or docker I recommend
the first because it supports running
containers as a user without being root
and then you have to install distrobox
Anyway on the official page  there is a
guide on the basic use of the main commands and
other useful things that could be
useful to us and I have never seen so much
documentation so well done in
a recently created Open Source project,
therefore Congratulations
on this front In any case I'll
summarize it for you  the basic use once you
have installed right box and podman you can
create your first container with right
box create and there is also a Help In this
regard where it shows you some
examples of use for example we can create
an Alpine Fedora image by specifying
also version number possibly
with various volumes  attached or
customized environment variables etc.
etc. I, for example, created this
image here A wish 2204 with the
Nvidia switch activated This is used to
have GPU acceleration inside
the container if you have AMD you don't have to
specify anything already all automatic
with Nvidia  just add this stuff
here and you have everything you
need to run applications even at
a certain level, in fact after
creation I can use distrobox LS to
view all the containers that have
been created in reality as you can see I
created point  envy and also another one
called test Then I'll explain the
difference. The fact is that all these
containers that we have created are
accessible indirectly from the
Application Launcher. I just need to write
Ubuntu. Look, actually here there is
also another old one which is  a
long story However Ubuntu is envy I
press here and it opens a terminal
inside this container
remember that these containers are not
made to isolate the developed Virtu system
contained in reality from
your host system they only need to
install applications without  affect
your operating system But everything that
your normal shell has access to
also has access to the shell of the
container so don't treat them as
containing the Bomb proof in which to
run malware because it's inside
a container anyway so it's not another way
to get into  one of these containers is
simply distro box Enter and then the
name of the container in question now as
usual This is a container so
if I make a name minus you can see that the
kernel I am running is that of the
host system consequently drivers and
kernel modules  they still have to
install them on the host system but all the
user  space so the applications
can be installed inside
the container, for example, in here I
also installed obs studio and
I can launch it simply by typing
obs and look here it started and says obs is
already running because I
am recording this video with obs but  not this
container the obs that he installed on
my Arch operating system He however
notices that there is another pair of obs
running because because there is no
isolation of the processes between the container
and the host system so always the same
thing  of integration not isolation
tells me do you want to run it  same Yes
okay I run it and look it's the
configuration that is on my Arch
These are the scenes that I created in
my obs if I go to modify some
obs settings in here I
find them modified also on the real
operating system because the
obs configuration is inside the home profile and
in fact for this reason I had created
another container called test which is the one
you saw before always
based on subuntu 22 04 in which I had
specified that the home of this
container must be in another
path  so not Homer but a
subfolder called test Home if I
enter inside this container
test Look at it now I am But if
I make CD to go back to my Home it
actually moves me inside
this folder here and if Launch obs in here
yes ok Launch it  same and look at
the obs configuration it is clean
Because all the configurations that
are inside my Home under
the config folder including obs
studio are in another path
and therefore in a certain sense here I can
keep the configurations separate  for
each container that  it is a great
convenience. It being understood that this
container can always access
everything I have in my home and
therefore it is not isolated. You are starting to
see the advantages of the
operating mechanics here. That is, practically I
can use containers to say
install specific applications in
specific versions that perhaps
I cannot find elsewhere do not run
on my distro for any reason
and possibly I
will have to keep their configuration separate from a
duplicate that I have of another version
on the same computer or on another
container. I will take this opportunity to let you  see
something very cool  I installed da
Vinci resolve inside one of
these containers and I also take advantage of it
to show you an alternative way to
launch applications inside the
container it always starts with disk box
Enter and the name of the container but then I
specify less less and the path
of the executable inside the
container this will launch da Vinci
solves inside the container in a
single step without having to enter it
then launch the solves Look at this
This is version 18.5 different from the
version I have installed on my host
on Arch which  there  18.0 Among other studios
This is the free one if you're asking me
but will this thing work Of course it
works Look at it Here it is all
as if it were native and I already know that
someone is wondering but
how much performance allows us to
follow inside  of a container
is not very heavy stuff No you are
confusing with virtual machines that
completely virtualize another
operating system and therefore also
the hardware in some way
virtualized in a container the
performance loss is a couple
of percentage points at most  worst case scenario and
these are numbers  that I pulled out
of the hat Dal Cappello but I'll
show you something even more convenient than
this did you know that you can create a
launcher relating to an executable that
is inside a container but make it
appear with any other
application to do it I just need to
enter the  internal of the container in
question I use distrobox Export minus minus
App and then the path of the executable
that I executed before that I want to
export application successfulcted
will appear Soon in the list of
applications and now Look at the magic if
I go into the
application launcher of any now you can
environment  that if not kdas but etc.
I write da Vinci Look at this This is
what I positioned on Arch and this
is what I installed inside
the container just one click and voil it is
always running inside the
container but the integration is  scary
and I don't need to be
inside the container right
now I can also exit I can also
use acatop to see the running processes
and we will find that it resolves
figure among the running processes as
if I were actually running it
on my host guess what  I'm a little bit
running on my host the isolation here
is so minimal that even
between processes you can see each other without problems and
so I can try the beta of davinci
resolution 18.5 while still keeping
the stable version installed, i.e. the
18 studio that I installed on my
host system but  I could also install
everything in various containers it's the same
And in my opinion this is really
really convenient for maintaining both
stability and trying new things but
you know Actually not only for that
because if I think about it for a moment think about
if I install everything in the  interior
of  these integrated containers and I pay
attention to keeping the configurations
separate in the various prepared Home folders
Well then But who's stopping me
who's going to kill me if I want to change
distribution from one day to the next I
could easily
take one of these containers and
install everything I need
to  my video production obs da Vinci
solves etcetera etcetera and then
export it at any time and
import it onto another computer and Bam
automatically I would have software and
configuration your user ready to
use on any other system it's a
super simple migration I
wouldn't have to bother  in looking for i
dotfire of the software configurations
that I need to migrate them to another
computer After having
manually installed the various software I just need to
copy the container with its
configurations from another place and then
think about the modularity of the thing,
let's say that a machine on which I do
a bit  ' everything So I keep a
container for all the multimedia production tools
a separate container for the
development tools with
Python dependency queues etc. etc. a
container for music production I don't
know maybe I also have a computer that I
only use for programming because  it's a
laptop it doesn't have  the computing power
for many other things and then I
just take that container and export it to
import it onto that computer there for
programming and I have the exact same
things so it's not just the use case
of the single application for
backwards compatibility or on the contrary it can
be  any stuff that
also has to do with management and
if you are not completely psychopathic
to use NX os to do everything in a
declarative way via that file
blablabla This is an excellent alternative
to bother much less and
still have a  something  manageable it
's not bad but now I want to hear from
you is there any use case that I
missed something that you wish I
had at least mentioned or I made you
discover something interesting
new as usual Let me know in the
comments Thanks again also  at
this month's patchlows I never know which side they'll
end up on, probably from there for having
supported the creation of this
content, see you at the next
preview content only for the
patchyons and backstages which are not
publishable here on YouTube and for all
the others, see you  to the next video
[Music]